---
title: Cyber Security Skills – A UK Government Priority
layout: post
tags: industry
---

In the UK there is a huge demand for skilled cyber security services and ISO 27001 consultants, a demand, that isn’t being met. The government are well aware of this. The government believe that the development of a cyber security professional body is absolutely vital for the growth of future responses to cyber threats, and to the continued development of the profession… 

The way in which you look after and use company information can mean the difference between success and failure for your business. Get it right and you’ll grow your customer-base.Get it wrong and the risks and penalties can stop you in your tracks. ISO 27001 certification demonstrates that your business has systems in place to protect corporate information and data, whether this is online or offline. By gaining ISO 27001, customer and stakeholder confidence is increased and your company’s reputation is improved, allowing you to stand out amongst competitors. To help you do this there are many ISO 27001 consultants working for cyber security businesses who can advise you on how to achieve this. By allowing a cyber security consultant to help you structure the digital side of your company, not only will you be protecting yourself as best as possible from any cyber threats that may be a danger to your business files, but you are assisting in the development of the cyber security profession which even the government has pointed out as crucial to today’s society. Reason being, we are living in an ever increasing digital world, so it is massively important that we gain the knowledge of how to protect ourselves from the threats that lie out there. Not everyone however will be able to get a complete understanding of how best to ensure that they are not exploited by hackers for example, so for their sake, it is in their best interest to gain the help and assistance of a cyber security service, and protect themselves and their business from harm.
